Testing 1, 2, 3, 4, 1, 2, 3, 4. Testing 1, 2, 3, 4.
Testing
5, 4, 3, 2, 1.
This is the 27th of March. We're at 2909 Coronado.
And I have the pleasure and honor of chatting with
James Ray. And you are now Jim or James? I go by Jim
now. Jim. All right, class of? 63. 63. To introduce
yourself to this tape and to anyone that would
listen to it or read the transcription, describe
family background, where you grew up, what did mom
and dad do, where did you go to high school? Okay,
I'll start with my mom because she also had a
brother who was an Aggie. And then my dad, who was an
Aggie, my mom was born in Royce City, Texas, and
when she was very young, she moved to Rockwall,
where her father was the county sheriff, and he had
been the city marshal in Royce City. He became the
sheriff of Rockwall County, which is the smallest
county in the state, northeast of Houston, out
beyond Garland. I'm sorry, northeast of Dallas,
out beyond Garland. And
that's where she grew up and when she was a teenager
her mother died and then a few years later her
father got ill and became incapacitated and so she
moved to Longview to live with her mom's sister and
it was there that she met my dad. My mom's maiden
name was Norma Macklin M-A-C-L-I-N and my father
was Leonard Franklin Ray. He was born in Longview
as I was and he met mom at a church social at the First
Baptist Church in Longview and They married, and
then I was born in 1941, went through elementary
school at Judson Grove Independent School
District, which is now a part of the Longview
School District, and I went there through the
seventh grade, and in the summer of 1954, we moved
to Conroe. At Judson, my dad had been the
vocational ag teacher In Conroe, he taught high
school biology and
my mom still lives in Conroe. My dad passed away in
1992 and I came to Texas A&M from Conroe High School
in September of 1959. My dad was the class of 1938,
my mom's brother started to A&M in the early 40s,
then he went off to war, went off to Europe, and then
he came back and finished, I believe, I believe
he's listed, his class year's listed as 47 or 48.
He's Robert Edwin Macklin, Jr., named after their
dad. Why did you attend A&M? Well, with Uncle Bob
and my dad both being Aggies, I didn't know there
was any other place. No, I had heard a lot about it.
And I guess when I was a kid growing up, I remember on
Saturday afternoons when we'd be out. This is back
in the late 40s and early 50s. you know, we'd be out
doing chores, sometimes, you know, washing the
car or detailing, cleaning it up, and the car radio
would be on, and I remember Kern Tips doing the
Southwest Conference play-by-play for, back
then, I guess it was Humble Oil and Refining
Company, and hearing a lot about the the games and
the different players and I was very active in
athletics as a youngster, played football,
basketball and baseball and I didn't have any idea
whether or not I'd ever be a competitive
collegiate athlete or not but A&M was always one of
my favorites. Did you come to visit A&M before you
came up to? I did. My dad brought me over here and we
visited with a cousin, Joe Dark, who was in one of
the cadet corps dorms and we went up to see him and I
don't remember, I remember that visit
but I was kind of almost somewhere between neutral
and maybe slightly negatively impressed with the
dorms because they were so stark and austere just
concrete and of course that was way back in the days
before that they'd done all the renovations that
was probably sometime in the in the early to mid
50s. Did you and your buddies at high school talk
about colleges and schools? Oh yeah, as a matter of
fact, several of the guys had nicknamed me Aggie.
So did you ever seriously think about going
anywhere else? Not really. When a buddy and I went
to take the, it wasn't the SATs, back then it was
called the college board exams, we took them on the
Rice campus. And because there were three places
that they would send the test scores at no
additional cost, I had mine sent to Texas A&M,
Baylor, and Rice. And never
heard from Baylor or Rice. Of course, I just sent
the test scores, never sent an application when I
sent the application to Texas A&M. And then...
went over to check and see if it was satisfactory
and make sure the application had been accepted.
They had already indicated that if I wanted to come
I was acceptable academically. You got here in the
fall of 59. That's correct. Did you go to fish camp?
I don't believe I went to fish camp that year. I went
to fish camp as a counselor I believe in my junior
and senior years but I don't believe I was one and
I'm not really sure how folks were selected back
then or whether you had to volunteer for it and I
really wasn't that familiar with it. So when you
came to enroll it was to begin classes. Describe
that trip over mom and dad brought you in the car,
and what did you bring with you, and so forth. Gee,
that made such a, I don't remember the trip over. I
don't remember what I brought with me. Did you have
a footlocker yet?
Probably so, either a footlocker or some kind of a
suitcase. It might have just been a few packing
boxes. to move in a few things but I probably
traveled pretty lightly anyway knowing that
there would be uniforms to wear and so I probably
just had maybe some Sunday clothes to wear to
church if that was permitted and I didn't even know
and not very many civilian clothes and so just some
basics and Did mom and dad give you any advice or
direction as you were getting ready for them to go
home?
Not that I recall. I
don't have much of a remembrance until the
the initial meeting, the first, I guess I got there
on a day, the sophomores must have been in a meeting
somewhere when I arrived because it seemed like it
was either a junior or a senior,
kind of welcomed me and got me in a room and told me
when the first fish meeting was gonna be. How did
you get, you and your outfit, how did that pair up?
How did you get assigned an outfit? I really don't
know. When I got there and checked in, they told me I
was going to be in Squadron 9 because I had
requested an Air Force as opposed to an Army unit.
Even then, I knew I wanted to apply for pilot
training. Where was Squadron 9? It was located in
dorm 12. I believe that's called Ute Hall, if I'm
not mistaken. It was right adjacent to Duncan
Dining Hall, so it was the most southerly of the
dorms. And of course, we were... Did that outfit
have a nickname? It was called Hellcat 9. and our
group still refers to it. In fact, although we were
always Hellcat 9, it was an outfit that had just
been reconstituted or created from seems like
Squadron 5 and
I can't remember where the leadership cadre came.
I know some of them came from squadron five and it
was one I guess that had been had been enacted for a
while because of the fluctuation in the student
population. Anyway they reactivated it that year
and we had had new leadership. So there's a senior
or junior who takes you to your room? As I recall
That's the way it was and it was pretty pleasant the
first, I'd say the first half of the first day
because I remember getting in my room and having a
chance to get pretty well established in the room
before the first fish meeting and the first
sophomores came in. Describe that room. It was a
little,
let me see. When you open the door and there's a
very, a fairly narrow hallway into
a single room. When you close the door, then you
made room for the two closet doors to open from on
either side of you. And then on one side of the room
was a metal iron bunk bed, double bunk. And that was
on the right hand side. On the left hand side was a
lavatory and a mirror. Trying to remember if there
were two of those or just one. I guess you and your
fish buddy, your fish old lady had to share those as
I recall. I'm just trying to visualize it. And then
just beyond the the bunk in the corner there was a
single window in the middle of the room and on
either side of the window with the backs to the
walls were the two study desks and so if you were
both studying at the same time you sat back to back
and then above the study desk was one or two shelves
where you put your study books. It was pretty
austere, it was concrete There was waxed
concrete, if you can imagine that. Fourth floor?
No, I was on the first floor. How did you get that?
Well, there were two squadrons there, and
Squadron 10 was up above us. They had the third and
fourth floors, and Squadron 9 was on the first and
second floors, and they had us interspersed. with
all the other upperclassmen. I know right
opposite us were two sophomores. To our right were
two sophomores. To our left were two juniors. When
you arrived, did you know much Aggie lingo and
traditions and all that? Not really. Of course, I
knew the spirit of Aggieland and the Aggie war hymn
just from having attended a few football games
with my dad and and some friends but didn't know all
of the lingo that you learned. Did you know what to
expect those first few days and nights?
Not really. I think my dad had kind of dropped some
hints that it would be military but that didn't
bother me and really I was not as put off by a lot of
the early regimentation as some folks were. In
fact, we had a couple of guys in our outfit that
didn't last more than a day or two. And in fact, one
of my buddies from Conroe, I won't mention his
name, but he came and was in an army unit and he was
there maybe three or four weeks. And I remember my
dad calling me one time saying that he and Mr.
So-and-so were coming over to visit him and try to
see what the problem was. And the problem was he
just didn't like the regimentation and the
toughening process. And so I think he quit and went
to Baylor. You said it was for a few hours it was
pleasant and then here came the sophomores.
Describe all of that routine. Well,
they had a fish meeting and when we all fell out to go
to the meeting, they lined us up on the second floor
along the wall and We learned how to stand at
attention and hit a brace, chin tucked in, lots of
wrinkles and all of that. Although that part was
conducted by the juniors and then the squadron
commander who was
John Lister came out and gave us a pep talk, and that
was the first warning we had that the sophomores
were going to be taking up our training. And there
were a couple of sophomores present then, but it
was mostly, it was the squadron, the commander and
his executive officer, and then the first
sergeant, Vernon Yotta, And they are the ones who
gave us the first orientation. And the one or two
sophomores that they had allowed at that first
meeting were the ones that had been lining us up. I
guess that was the last of what you might call
instructive
attitude. From that time on it was a demanding
attitude. You know, you will do this, you will
learn this, you will say, and it's when you learn to
say yes sir, no sir, and sir not being informed to
the highest degree of accuracy, I state to
articulate in fear I may deviate from the true
course of rectitude, in short term a very dumb
fish, and do not know sir. I said that often enough
that I still remember it. That's without any
premeditated practice at all. It's just right off
the top.
When did you get your uniforms? That is not real
clear. I remember you know going and having them
issued. I would guess it was either that same day
that afternoon. Where?
There used to be a wooden building down behind dorm
one which was the core headquarters, down at the
end of the core quadrangle as you know where the new
arches and all that entryway is now. Of course at
that end is where dorm one on the east side and dorms
two on the west side and then dorm one runs north and
south and dorm two runs east and west and kind of
offset from that on the street was a wooden
building that housed a tailor shop and it was like a
quartermaster actually it was an outlet for a
cleaning and laundry service but on that occasion
that was used as kind of the distribution point for
a lot of the uniforms. Now that's where we went, all
the Air Force people. I don't know if the other
cadets from other places went other places or not,
but that's where we went. That building also at
that time housed the singing cadets. Well, I say it
did. My memory's not clear whether that was my fish
year or if that evolved during one of the
subsequent years, but I know the singing cadets
also occupied that building for a while. Your
uniforms, were these new or were they used? They
had been used before. I don't remember
specifically. Occasionally guys would get some
new ones, but a lot of them had been used before and
were handed down. Did they fit well? Not at first.
They tried to get fairly close, but I remember
having to go over to Northgate to get them tailored
especially after you put on the uniforms for the
first time and that was probably either that
evening or the next morning. You put the uniform on
and then we fell out in formation and in addition to
the drill and ceremonies there was a lot of
critique about how you wear the uniform and how
neat and how tight or loose and just a lot of
critique to make the uniforms look right and the
thing about that to me was I just assumed that
everything that was happening even though it was a
little harsh and a little strenuous at times I just
figured that was normal for the military so I just
adapted to it didn't complain about it and I
figured it was you know when they He told me how to
straighten your gig line and how to tuck your shirt
tail in and even things like, especially when
you're getting ready for a graded review or march
by, how at a certain point all the guys kind of
turned inward, unzipped their fly, reached in,
pulled the shirt tails down to tighten them With
your belt buckles tightened so the shirts would
stay down and there wouldn't be any creases or
wrinkles around your middle, you'd reach in and
pull your shirt tails down and then zip your fly up
and everybody turned back in formation as a little
technique for getting a little bit better grade
when you did your graded march-bys. That's the
first time I'd ever had that happen. And it made an
impression, but at the same time, I understood why
and I went along with it. When did your official
lady arrive?
Probably that same afternoon. Earl Henderson was
my official lady from Houston. He was Houston
Spring Branch. Did you all become fast friends? We
did. We got along very well that year. Although the
second year,
Because his major and my major were different, we
got other roommates. We were just together the
first year. And the first semester, we lived in
dorm 12. And then there was some kind of a
renovation project. And I don't remember what
they did,
it really didn't materially affect the rooms that
much but there's some kind of renovation to the to
the building itself and so our second freshman
semester we moved over to the to dorm seven on the
opposite side of the middle of the quadrangle on
the opposite side and uh but same roommate same
outfit yes and same routine same routine right
Now,
I presume there were two or three days before
classes started. What all was done to whip you all
into shape and to get you ready to be real members of
the Corps? How did they do that? Well, I just
remember spending a lot of time on the sidewalks
and the quadrangle over there on the west side of
Duncan between Duncan and dorm 12 and then and then
marching out on the the wide concrete in front of
Duncan dining hall and uh occasionally and and
there were a lot of other outfits were out there and
I remember the uh just learning how to march and
step to a cadence and uh and Jody calls and uh and uh
Every
once in a while, if you messed up, a sophomore would
take you out and give you some one-on-one drill and
say, no, the other left. And teaching you how to
keep your elbows straight and cup your hands and
everything to look military when you marched. And
to me, it was just something to learn. I didn't
object to it. A lot of guys even the ones that stayed
and made it all the way through complained a lot
about how tough everything was and I just kind of
shrugged it off and went along with it. Of course I
got my share of chewing out so if I did a misstep or
did a right face when everybody else did a left
face. I just took it as a learning experience and
went on of course I had been a competitive athlete
so I was used to coaches you know sometimes I won't
say yelling at you because that sometimes
especially in modern day carries the wrong
context but yeah there was a lot of yelling at you
but I took it as being instructive and
motivational and stressing the importance of you
know if you screw up you make the outfit look bad and
so I really never had any problem adapting to it. I
never had any sense or thought of quitting or going
home or complaining although there were a few
times when some sophomores were leaning on us or
some of our fish buddies so heavily that we
retaliated and that was not only to me that was more
good bull than it was extreme frustration but I was
always adventurous enough that if somebody was
being harassed and needed some help I'd usually
try to try to help them out and like the times where
we water ballooned the guys right across the hall
from us and another time when we babble bombed
another guy from another outfit who had been
harassing the fish unmercifully in fact
unreasonably describe the Babel bombing as y'all
did? Well let me do the water balloon first because
that one happened first and I think getting away
with that one kind of gave us the courage to try the
other one later but Tommy Dabney and Jack Mahan
live right across the hall from us and
I want to say Alton McGee and Grubby Heron were
sophomores that lived to our right. Now our room,
our window faced Duncan. So we were on the east side
of the dorm and Tommy Dabney and Jack Mahan were on
the west side right opposite us. And they had been
leaning pretty heavily on some of the fish and some
of the guys were really, really frustrated. So we
decided, and they had gotten on our case harder
than we thought was reasonable on several
occasions. And so we decided, as a matter of fact,
we went up to one of the juniors. His name is Billy
Sewell from Waco. And we asked for kind of a timeout
or an academic situation to complain. There were
rules for, you know, venting grievances or
requesting academic help or things like that.
where you could relax a little more and talk more
frankly than you could normally on a day to day
basis. Billy Sewell had always seemed pretty
reasonable and always had kind of a twinkle in his
eye and yet he was sharp, he was gung ho. but we
figured that he was one of the juniors we could
trust so I went with someone else I don't remember
who it was it was probably Earl and we asked him we
told him the kind of behavior and irrational
exuberance as Alan Greenspan would put it that
they were experiencing and that
we thought that was unreasonable and we asked if
there was anything that the upperclassmen could
do to rein that in and
he kind of hemmed and hawed and well he was very
candid with us but it was kind of evasive as to what
upperclassmen could do to solve that and he said
that's part of the system you kind of have to go
along with it to the extent that it's reasonable
even if they're a little out of line and so we
reiterated that we thought some things were
unreasonable and as we told him some of these
things he kind of nodded didn't comment and we said
uh well look if the uh if the upperclassmen can't do
anything about it if we uh if we retaliated by babo
bombing or water ballooning or or uh say putting
chickens in their room on the weekend when they're
going to be gone for a couple of days which we'd
heard these stories around about how other fish
getting frustrated had retaliated and we asked
him you know if uh... if we would be in trouble or
really bad trouble uh... you know to the point
where we might get kicked out of the outfit or
kicked out of school if we retaliated and got them
to be and just sent them a signal that they were out
of line. He thought about it for a minute, and all he
said was, not if you don't get caught.
And I guess he probably remembered his fish year
and how frustrating sometimes things can get. So
we took that as our signal to go, but don't get
caught. So we picked the night. I don't remember if
it was the same night or...